- [Instructor] Okay, so now let's take a look
at the Environment Setup.
We'll look at the software prerequisites first,
and then we'll go on to see how do you create a project.
We of course will need Java Development Kit,
that is JDK, the Java software, version 1.8 or higher.
It can be downloaded from the link
that is mentioned on the slide.
Then, we of course need
an integrated development environment.
We are choosing NetBeans IDE,
which is one shop stop for all the development activity,
like coding, testing,
hosting the application on the server, et cetera.
8.2 is the most stable version, so we'll go with that.
However, if you are comfortable with any other
integrated development environment like, say,
Eclipse, or IntelliJ, you are free to pick that up.
Now, under the Java Enterprise Edition concurrency utilities
we are going to build a RESTful application,
and we need to host that on an application server
for which we will require an application container, right?
So we have chosen GlassFish Server version five.
You can download it from that link,
and if you wish to choose any other kind of server
which is IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, or Wifly,
of course, go ahead with that.
In order to test out the RESTful web services,
we would go with a tool called Postman.
It's a very common and popular tool
which is used across the industry projects
to test RESTful services.
So you can download it and install it on your machine.
And then this course is of course
going to do a few database interactions,
so we will require a database server.
I am going with MySQL server,
if you want to pick up any other database server
like MS SQL, or PostgreSQL, of course, go ahead with that.
There's no problem with that at all.
Now let's understand,
how do you set up a Java Standard Edition project.
Now this course is actually about
Java Enterprise Edition concurrency,
but we have to take a look at some of the
Java Standard Edition concurrency APIs first,
so that the understanding for the Enterprise Edition
is a little better.
Okay, so we are going to ahead and create
a Standard Edition project first,
look at the APIs of Java SE concurrency,
and then move on with it.
So now I'll open my IDE, and I'll create a new project here.
You first have to create a Maven Java project in your IDE.
So let's go ahead,
I'll say it right click, New Project.
And choose Maven, and under that choose a Java Application.
Let's click on Next,
and name this project as Java SE Concurrency.
Let's get rid of this default package.
We do not want that.
We'll create our own packages.
Let's click on Finish.
Right, the next step is,
we have to add the database connector
JAR dependency for the project.
What I mean by this is,
I already said that all the demos that we do
are going to have database interactions.
We've chosen the MySQL database server,
and we are going to write simple Java database connectivity,
which is JDBC code.
Now in order that the code works correctly,
we will require the MySQL connector JAR,
which we say is the driver implementation
for the MySQL server, right?
So that dependency you'll have to mention
in your configuration file, which is pom.xml
in your project.
So the pom.xml will be available under the Project Files,
you can just open that,
and let's insert the dependencies tag here.
Let's also end it,
and within this we can enter the MySQL connector dependency.
Now, I have already got that dependency ready with me,
you can find it under the exercise folders
for Chapter One 01_02 begin,
so I'm just going to open that file up, and there we go.
That's the first dependency that I can see.
So I'm just going to copy this,
go back to my project, and paste it on line number 10.
Okay, right?
Just make sure.
Whatever version of MySQL server that you pick up,
the corresponding MySQL connector JAR is also picked up,
otherwise you may have certain conflicts
and the code may not work correctly.
So just be careful about that.
If you want any information on which JAR
has to be picked out, you just have to refer
to the MySQL Server website,
and all the information is available right there.
Okay, the next step will be
to create a proper package structure
to store all the source code.
Okay, so let's go back to the IDE
and under the Source Package,
we are going to create a lot of packages.
Let's say it,
right click, New, Java Package,
I'm going to say com.app.test.
So let's say this is the folder where we're going
to test out everything, right?
Another folder is,
we said we're going to make database interactions,
so we're going to have dedicated classes
which do database transaction operations.
We do not want to write everything under the main meter
because that's a hay-walk.
We should not be writing that kind of code.
So I'm going to make a separate package,
which has classes for interacting with the database,
which is the DAO folder, right?
Next up is the folder where you want to store all the data
so in an object oriented programming,
typically we store data in the form of Java beans
so I'm going to create a folder for that too.
So let's say com.app.beans, great.
Then the next big thing, we are going to write
classes for multi-trading, right,
so we're going to have this application,
which is called the Multi-Trading Capability,
so we are going to have those runnable tasks, right?
So let's create a package for runnables.
You can choose to give a different name
to all of these packages.
This is the one convention that I have followed.
You can go ahead and follow your own.
There's no problem with that.
Alright, so Beans is going to have all Java Beans.
DAO is going to have the database related classes.
Runnables is going to have all the classes for the trades,
which are going to do jobs for you
and Tests is the folder, which will contain
all the testing classes for this application.
Okay, what's the next step?
Let's create a class with the main method.
Okay, so let's go onto the Tests folder,
create a class, very simple class test,
and let's grab the main method here
and let's put a simple Sysout.
Let's say Java SE concurrency learning is started.
Okay, right?
After that, clean and build the code
and run the application.
So I'm gonna write click on this
and say clean and build
and it'll clean and build the project.
It'll install that MySQL Connector Dependency for us.
Yes, the build is a success.
Let's clear the console and now right click on this
and run the file.
Okay, so there we are.
The project setup is ready for us
and now we can start taking a look
into the concepts of JAVA Standard Edition API
and then we look at the demos.